---
layout: post
title: C22 - By Heart
date: 2019-02-19
summary: Some plays are so successful that they run for years on end.
---

  Some plays are so successful that they run for years `on end`. `In many ways`, this is unfortunate for the poor actors who are required to go on repeating the same `lines` night after night. One would  expect  them to know their `parts` by heart and never  cause to have `faulter`. `Yet this is not always the case`.

  A famous actor in a highly successful play was once `cast in the role of` an `aristocrat` who had been `imprisoned` in the Bastille for twenty years. In the last act, a `gaoler` would always come on the stage with a letter which would hand to the prisoner. Even know the `noble` was expected  to read the letter at each performance, he always insisted that it should written out in full.

   One night, the gaoler decided to play a joke on his colleague to find out if, after so many performances, he had managed to learn the contents of the letter by heart. The curtain went up on final act of the play, and `revealed` the aristocrat sitting alone  behind the bars in his dark cell. Just then, the gaoler appeared with the precious letter in his hands. He entered the cell and presented the letter to the aristocrat. But the copy he gave him had not been wrriten out in full as usual. It was simply  a blank sheet of paper. The gaoler looked on `eagerly`, anxious to see if his fellow actor had at last learnt his lines. The noble stared at the blank sheet of paper for a seconds. Then, `squinting` his eyes, he said:  *'the light is `dim`, read the letter to me. '* And  he promptly headed the sheet of paper to his gaoler. Finding that he could not remember a word of the letter either, the gaoler  replied: *'the light is indeed dim, sire. I must get my glasses'*. With this , he hurried off the stage. Much to the aristocrat's `amusement `, the gaoler ruturned a few moments later with a pair of glasses and the usual copy of the letter which he proceeded to read to the prisoner.
